All right, let's go back in
to that larger application.
This is the Cypress-examples
application that we have here.
And like I said, let's kind of
see where we're demoing today.
And I'm gonna close the other
Cypress runner at this point and
go back over here.
And I can go ahead,
I have it running on localhost:3000.
So let's just take a look at
what we have to work with here.
And then we'll begin writing
some tests around it together.
So this says it should be running at 3000.
We have not one, not two,
but six example applications
to kind of give us the ability
to try out different
things like little toast
notifications popping up,
or ones that have login and
off, so on and so forth.
That's why there's that SQLite dependency.
So it's not just all hard coded data.
We have one that just has every kind
of input field that you might ever
want to deal with, so on and so forth.
So we'll be kind of testing
these applications.
It doesn't matter what they're written
in because Cypress doesn't care.
You tell it to click a button,
it's gonna click a button,
it doesn't matter if it's just HTML or if
you wrote it in jQuery or what have you.
So we won't actually be working
on any of these applications,
they kind of exist for us to explore and
play around with as we go through.
So let's go over,
we have this first file here, which is,
let me to go back over
to the cypress-examples,
where we have just a describe block.
One of the interesting things
about Cypress versus Jest is,
a lot of the unit testing frameworks
will get angry with you if you have
a test that has no assertions in it,
right?
And that seems reasonable, right?
Like yeah, you made me run this test, but
you didn't check anything that
you probably made a boo-boo.
But as we talked about with Cypress
before, it is very likely that
you might wanna have it go visit a page,
and then you might wanna
use the selector playground to
figure out what that selector is.
And then you might add
another piece of code, and
then you might wanna do the next thing and
kind of build up that larger workflow,
yeah.
>> I think you answered this just now but
to clarify what we're essentially doing
is we are telling the test framework that
it's okay if we don't get a return value?
>> Yep.
>> Is that right?
>> Yep,
cuz it will just kind of pause and wait.
It takes the absence of failure
as success, right, just like me.
So the other piece that we have
here is if you look up here,
this is a JavaScript file.
JavaScript is a programming language
that came slightly before TypeScript.
But this allows you to have
all of the IntelliSense
goodness in your JavaScript file.
So you get a lot of the autocomplete and
stuff like that for free.
One of the things if you
use Visual Studio code
that I do is you might just wanna make for
some of these things you're
doing very commonly.
And I have the thing you can copy and
paste in the guides here.
I just call it cyref, and that way,
I can just put that at
the top of any given file.
Some of the selectors,
I also just have shortcuts for
because I don't enjoy typing that.
Yeah, you can get it from
the selector playground as well, but
if you know what it is and
you don't wanna type in any of that.
Let's talk about selectors for a moment.
There's kind of like
a hierarchy of selectors and
which ones are good and
which ones are less good, right?
Saying that you wanna get the first
paragraph tag on the page is
probably great right now and increasingly
less good as time goes on, right?
Even class names like
a lot of modern frameworks
are going to turn your very
descriptive class names
into hashes and
garbage class names, right?
This application is built, for instance,
in Svelte, which the Tailwind classes go
through, but any of the kind of bespoke
ones get turned into unique identifiers so
that code splitting works, right?
The things that try to make
the web more performant, right?.
So relying on class names or relying
on things that happened to be there for
style purposes,
is probably also a little bit problematic,
because they might get changed by
someone updating a design, right?
So basically, yeah, just hoping that
it's the fourth paragraph on the page,
probably not great.
Hoping that it has a class of purple
border to find it, also probably not great
because the purple will become blue,
your tests will break, and you'll be sad.
And I'm not gonna feel that bad.
So moving up, IDs, right?
If you're styling based on IDs, again,
they could change cuz the style but
IDs are if you're using them for
the purposes of testing work,
the general kind of recommendation
is to use data attributes.
So in HTML, you can do data dash
whatever you want and equals something.
And the idea being that no one is going
to change a data-test when they're
changing the style, right, or
data-cypress or something like that.
Like it says, hey, this identifier
is on here because I'm using it
to get a hook on that particular
element when I'm writing my tests.
So that is kind of a way to
go about doing that as well.
When we are writing our first test,
the very first thing that
we need to do is we need to tell
Cypress where to go, right?
It will poke any button or
change any input that you want on a page,
but it can't acquiesce what page
it should go to to do that, right?
So we do need to tell
Cypress to visit a page.
Just real quick, if we go into the
cypress.json, you can see in this case,
that I do have a baseUrl set, right?
So I do not need to type in
the fully qualified domain, but
if you were to spin up Cypress for
yourself and just type in /cats/whatever,
right, it's not gonna necessarily
work cuz you didn't configure that.
So that is one thing that I did
on your behalf in this case.
So that's just kinda to point
it out as we go through.
So the very first thing to do
is we need to go visit a page.
Now we have describe, we have it blocks,
we also have beforeEach.
I want you to take a wild
guess when beforeEach runs.
>> Runs before each test.
>> Runs before each test, perfect.
So we've got beforeEach, and
that will take a function
of what we wanna do.
So generally speaking, in a lot of cases,
you want to visit probably in a given
file, you're probably visiting the same
page, the same part of your application.
So beforeEach is a really good place
to put that because it will go.
Otherwise, you're gonna do
it in every test, right?
The other interesting part is you
can nest these describe blocks,
which we'll do a little bit later on.
If you nest them, the beforeEach
will happen in the order of nesting.
So beforeEach, we'll do cy.visit.
And we're gonna go visit
that first application,
which is ('/ jetsetter'),
which we'll take a look at in a second.
And it will now go every time and
it will visit that page when
this test suite runs, right?
And we could say it should, right?
We're gonna do the thing where we
don't necessarily know what we
wanna do just yet but like go fire
up the page, pull it up in front of
me with that selector playground and
stuff along those lines.
And then we'll kind of figure out what the
first thing that we want to do is, right?
Like, this could be ideally you're
writing this test maybe before
you start even working on the feature,
right?
Like, I have a bug that
I need to fix next week,
where if there's a hash in the URL,
it doesn't render appropriately
because it thinks it's a hash in
the URL versus the identifier.
So I might just start with a test where
I put one of those links on the page and
go visit it to make sure that
it works correctly, right?
But this case,
we don't necessarily have a plan just yet,
I mean we do but not that I've told you.
So lets just get that kind of in place.
We'll say that it should, and again,
this should is just a pattern
you don't necessarily,
if you don't care that you're test read
English, you can do whatever you want.
So in this case, we'll do mpx cypress
open, just like we did before
And we'll give it a second and there is
Cypress and is pulling up my entire file.
Now if you really wanted to test me, you
could go run all 29, it will take a while.
Someone's like, yeah, I'm doing it.
They pass, some of them are skipped but
they pass.
We'll go into this first-flight one,
which is the file that we had open.
As you add files,
that list will automatically update.
Everything is rocking and rolling.
And you can see that the application
pulls up, and like that test,
technically passed.
Again, in the absence of failure,
it passes.